# Laville
To those who haven't lived or grown up in Laville, it looks like a fairly nondescript city in a fairly nondescript hot, sandy, and dry climate - borders an anaemic lake, has a city wall, houses made of wood and stone, a merchants' quarter, a noble district, a slum, standoffish but largely friendly residents of mixed backgrounds and races, and so on. However, those who do stay there for any significant period eventually find out that some things don't quite add up about the place. For one thing, there is a huge variety of architectural styles represented in the city buildings. The natives speak multiple dialects that sound almost mutually incomprehensible. The food there has a stupendous amount of variety, as does the wildlife. Digging deeper, a curious traveller might find that the buildings can be grouped up into two major categories. Likewise, the local languages, culinary arts, and the flora and fauna. This is no coincidence. There are, in fact, _two_ Lavilles.


## The Dual City
For a few hours every week, if one visits the merchants' quarter, one notices a rather interesting phenomenon. The residents of the city come out and make a huge circle around the exact geometric center of the quarter. After a few minutes, the air around the center starts shimmering and weaving and _flowing_ around, as if it is almost liquid, and eventually the twisting shapes coalesce into an image that looks to be extremely similar to the scene in the quarter. The image is of a large number of people standing in a circle, as viewed from the center. In the background are curiously familiar buildings, but set in a lush, verdant forest. This image is, of course, not an image, for a coincidental crossing of worldlines links Laville to an alternate version of the city, situated in a reality where its host planet didn't quite wobble in its orbit so much and therefore had a much more stable and fertile seasonal cycle.


While the odd traveller might be taken aback at this, the locals seem to accept this as a completely natural thing that has been around for centuries (it has). Thus is the mystery of the odd dualities of the city explained - centuries of communication and travel between the two Lavilles premitted a high degree of cross-pollination in both cities of ideas that had originated from the other one, thus leading to two distinct styles or categories of everything. The peculiarly close nature of the duality also meant that many inabitants had persons on the other side of the Veil (their name for the portal between the two realities) who were eerily similar to them, if not in name and habits then in backgrounds and major life incidents.


## The Merchants' Quarter
This is one of the older parts of the city, having being built up around the Veil shortly after it was discovered almost 700 years ago. Merchants settled here naturally over time to do commerce with their counterparts from the dual city, and thus this quarter naturally resounds with a lot of hustle and/or bustle. When it's not time for the Unveiling, vendors set up shop around the market square and peddle their wares. On display are various species of animals hung and spiced, ready for grilling, motley collections of fruits and vegetables, and various other day-to-day items.